These values are recommended in a 1988 paper by Park and Miller [11].
This old Matlab multiplicative congruential generator is available in the  randmcg. The statement
randgui(@randmcg)
shows that the points do not suffer the correlation of the SSP generator. They
generate a much better “random” cloud within the cube.
Like our toy generator, randmcg and the old version of the Matlab function
rand generate all real numbers of the form k/m for k = 1, . . . , m − 1. The smallest
and largest are 0.00000000046566 and 0.99999999953434. The sequence repeats
itself after m − 1 values, which is a little over 2 billion numbers. A few years ago,
that was regarded as plenty. But today, an 800 MHz Pentium laptop can exhaust
the period in less than half an hour. Of course, to do anything useful with 2 billion
numbers takes more time, but we would still like to have a longer period.
In 1995, version 5 of Matlab introduced a completely different kind of random
number generator. The algorithm is based on work of George Marsaglia, a professor
at Florida State University and author of the classic analysis of random number
generators, “Random numbers fall mainly in the planes” [6].
Marsaglia’s generator [9] does not use Lehmer’s congruential algorithm. In
fact, there are no multiplications or divisions at all. It is specifically designed to
produce floating-point values. The results are not just scaled integers. In place of a
single seed, the new generator has 35 words of internal memory or state. Thirty-two
of these words form a cache of floating-point numbers, z, between 0 and 1. The
remaining three words contain an integer index i, which varies between 0 and 31, a
single random integer j, and a “borrow” flag b. This entire state vector is built up
a bit at a time during an initialization phase. Different values of j yield different
initial states.
The generation of the ith floating-point number in the sequence involves a
“subtract-with-borrow” step, where one number in the cache is replaced with the
difference of two others:
zi = zi+20 − zi+5 − b.
The three indices, i, i+ 20, and i+ 5, are all interpreted mod 32 (by using just their
last five bits). The quantity b is left over from the previous step; it is either zero or
a small positive value. If the computed zi
is positive, b is set to zero for the next
step. But if the computed zi
is negative, it is made positive by adding 1.0 before it
is saved and b is set to 2−53 for the next step. The quantity 2−53, which is half of
the Matlab constant eps, is called one ulp because it is one unit in the last place
for floating-point numbers slightly less than 1